A health insurance company can only make money if it collects more than it spends on the medical care of its beneficiaries. On the other hand, even though some conditions are more prevalent for certain segments of the population, medical costs are difficult to predict since most money comes from rare conditions of the patients. The objective of this article is to accurately predict insurance costs based on people’s data, including age, Body Mass Index, smoking or not, etc. Additionally, we will also determine what the most important variable influencing insurance costs is. These estimates could be used to create actuarial tables that set the price of yearly premiums higher or lower according to the expected treatment costs. This is a regression problem.

Insurance is a policy that eliminates or decreases loss costs occurred by various risks. Various factors influence the cost of insurance. These considerations contribute to the insurance policy formulation. Machine learning (ML) for the insurance industry sector can make the wording of insurance policies more efficient. This study demonstrates how different models of regression can forecast insurance costs. And we will compare the results of models, for example, Multiple Linear Regression, Generalized Additive Model, Support Vector Machine, Random Forest Regressor, CART, XGBoost, k-Nearest Neighbors, Stochastic Gradient Boosting, and Deep Neural Network. This paper offers the best approach to the Stochastic Gradient Boosting model with an MAE value of 0.17448, RMSE value of 0.38018and R-squared value of 85.8295.
